q01:a:Businesses know that they can usually maximize their profits by using inaccurate information in their advertisements.
q01:b:Businesses have often included inaccurate information in their advertisements.
q01:c:Many consumers have a cynical attitude toward advertising.
q01:d:Those who create advertisements are less concerned with the accuracy than with the creativity of advertisements.
q01:e:The laws regulating truth in advertising are not applicable to many of the most common forms of inaccurate advertising.
q02:a:many artistic masterpieces are not recognized as such by art experts.
q02:b:museums should seek to represent all genres of art in their collections.
q02:c:art museums should seek to preserve works of art.
q02:d:an art museum ought to acquire an unusual example of a period or genre if more characteristic examples are prohibitively expensive.
q02:e:all of the artworks that experts identify as masterpieces are actually masterpieces.
q03:a:Cats have built up resistance to many of the diseases they have in common with humans.
q03:b:Most diseases that humans have in common with cats have no genetic basis.
q03:c:Cats have more diseases in common with nonhuman primates than with humans.
q03:d:Many of the diseases humans have in common with cats are mild and are rarely diagnosed.
q03:e:Humans have more genes in common with nonhuman primates than with cats.
q04:a:The region needs to find new ways to enhance business growth.
q04:b:Shoe manufacturing is no longer a major source of income in the region.
q04:c:Shoe manufacturing in the region has dramatically declined due to overseas competition.
q04:d:Business in the region must expand into new areas of manufacturing.
q04:e:Outdated public policy inhibits business growth in the region.
q05:a:Technical or scientific innovation cannot be the solution to all problems.
q05:b:Implementing technological innovations should be delayed until the resulting social changes can be managed.
q05:c:Every enhancement of the quality of life has unavoidable negative consequences.
q05:d:All social institutions are affected by a preoccupation with prolonging life.
q05:e:Solving one set of problems can create a different set of problems.
q06:a:Jackie has not previously cared for The Cruel Herd, but on the new album The Cruel Herd’s previous musical arranger has been replaced by Moral Vacuum’s musical arranger.
q06:b:Though The Cruel Herd’s previous albums’ production quality was not great, the new album is produced by one of the most widely employed producers in the music industry.
q06:c:Like Moral Vacuum, The Cruel Herd regularly performs in clubs popular with many students at the university that Jackie attends.
q06:d:All of the music that Jackie prefers to listen toon a regular basis is rock music.
q06:e:Jackie’s favorite Moral Vacuum songs have lyrics that are somber and marked by a strong political awareness.
q07:a:The use of superconductors will never be economically feasible.
q07:b:If the alloys of niobium and germanium do not superconduct at temperatures above minus 148 degrees Celsius, then there are other substances that will do so.
q07:c:The use of superconductors could be economically feasible if there is a substance that superconducts at temperatures below minus 148 degrees Celsius.
q07:d:Alloys of niobium and germanium do not superconduct at temperatures below minus 160 degrees Celsius.
q07:e:No use of alloys of niobium and germanium will ever be economically feasible.
q08:a:A fourth study comparing infants who were currently sleeping with night-lights to infants who were not did not find any correlation between night-lights and nearsightedness.
q08:b:On average, young children who are already very nearsighted are no more likely to sleep with night-lights than young children who are not already nearsighted.
q08:c:In a study involving children who had not slept with night-lights as infants but had slept with night-lights when they were older, most of the children studied were not nearsighted.
q08:d:The two studies in which no correlation was found did not examine enough children to provide significant support for any conclusion regarding a causal relationship between night-lights and nearsightedness.
q08:e:In a fourth study involving 100 children who were older than those in any of the first three studies, several of the children who had slept with night-lights as infants were nearsighted.
q09:a:The decline in the population of nesting female leatherback turtles is proportional to the decline in the leatherback turtle population as a whole.
q09:b:If the global population of leatherback turtles falls by more than two-thirds over the next 15 years, the species will eventually become extinct.
q09:c:The global population of leatherback turtles consists in roughly equal numbers of females and males.
q09:d:Very few leatherback turtles exist in captivity.
q09:e:The only way to ensure the continued survival of leatherback turtles in the wild is to breed them in captivity.
q10:a:The campaign to get people to eat more vegetables has had little impact on the diets of most people who love the taste of vegetables.
q10:b:Some ways of making vegetables more appetizing diminish vegetables’ ability to help prevent cancer.
q10:c:People who find a few vegetables appetizing typically do not eat substantially more vegetables than do people who dislike the taste of most vegetables.
q10:d:People who dislike the taste of most vegetables would eat many more vegetables if they knew how to make them more appetizing.
q10:e:The only way to make the campaign to get people to eat more vegetables more effective would be to ensure that anyone who at present dislikes the taste of certain vegetables learns to find those vegetables appetizing.
q11:a:It expresses the conclusion of the argument.
q11:b:It explains what is meant by the expression “pure research” in the context of the argument.
q11:c:It distracts attention from the point at issue by introducing a different but related goal.
q11:d:It supports the conclusion by ruling out an alternative way of achieving the benefits mentioned.
q11:e:It illustrates a case where unfortunate consequences result from a failure to accept the recommendation offered.
q12:a:judiciously spreading 
q12:b:many policyholders
q12:c:risk
q12:d:decreases
q12:e:hazard insurance
q13:a:If a drug made a difference in the duration of vertigo, a three-month shortage of that drug would have caused a significant change in the average duration of vertigo.
q13:b:If there were any change in the average duration of vertigo since the introduction of the drug, it would have demonstrated that the drug has an effect on the duration of vertigo.
q13:c:A period of time greater than three months would not have been better to use in judging whether the drug has an effect on the duration of vertigo.
q13:d:Changes in diet and smoking habits are not responsible for any change in the average duration of vertigo since the introduction of the drug.
q13:e:There are various significant factors other than drugs that decrease the duration of vertigo for many people who suffer from it.
q14:a:It states a view that the argument as a whole is designed to discredit.
q14:b:It is an intermediate conclusion that is offered in support of the claim that a television set should be thought of as nothing more than “a toaster with pictures” and for which the claim that we can let market forces determine what is seen on television is offered as support.
q14:c:It is a premise that is offered in support of the claim that we let market forces determine the design of kitchen appliances.
q14:d:It is an intermediate conclusion that is offered in support of the claim that some governmental control of television is needed and for which the claim that the television is on for more than five hours a day in the average home is offered as partial support.
q14:e:It is a premise that is offered in support of the claim that television is the primary medium through which many voters obtain information about current affairs.
q15:a:As far as soil health is concerned, aiding the decomposition of dead plants is the most important function performed by earthworms.
q15:b:After its application to the soil’s surface, crushed limestone stays in the soil’s top layer long enough to neutralize some of the top layer’s acidity.
q15:c:Crushed limestone contains available calcium and magnesium, both of which are just as vital as earthworms to healthy soil.
q15:d:By itself, acidity of soil does nothing to hasten decomposition of dead plants.
q15:e:Alkaline soil is significantly more likely to benefit from an increased earthworm population than is highly acidic soil.
q16:a:Those who formulate statutes are not primarily concerned with morality when they do so.
q16:b:Sometimes criteria other than the criteria derived from a moral code should be used in choosing one set of laws over another.
q16:c:Unless it is legally forbidden ever to violate some moral rules, moral behavior and compliance with laws are indistinguishable.
q16:d:There is no statute that a nation’s citizens have a moral obligation to obey.
q16:e:A nation’s laws can sometimes come into conflict with the moral code they express.
q17:a:Some people claim that rapid growth of the money supply is what causes inflation. But this is a naive view. What these people do not realize is that growth in the money supply and inflation are actually one and the same phenomenon.
q17:b:People who have high blood pressure tend to be overweight. But before we draw any inferences, we should consider that an unhealthy lifestyle can cause high blood pressure, and weight gain can result from living unhealthily.
q17:c:In some areas, there is a high correlation between ice cream consumption and the crime rate. Some researchers have proposed related third factors, but we cannot rule out that the correlation is purely coincidental.
q17:d:People’s moods seem to vary with the color of the clothes they wear. Dark colors are associated with gloomy moods, and bright colors are associated with cheerful moods. This correlation resolves nothing, however. We cannot say whether it is the colors that cause the moods or the converse.
q17:e:Linguists propose that the similarities between Greek and Latin are due to their common descent from an earlier language. But how are we to know that the similarities are not actually due to the two languages having borrowed structures from one another, as with the languages Marathi and Telegu?
q18:a:salespeople who have spent three years developing a client base might not yet be successful in sales 
q18:b:some salespeople require fewer than three years in which to develop a strong client base 
q18:c:a salesperson who has not spent three years developing a client base may not succeed in sales 
q18:d:it takes longer than three years for a salesperson to develop a strong client base
q18:e:few salespeople can afford to spend three years building a client base
q19:a:When a small company first begins to advertise on the Internet, its financial situation generally improves. This shows that most small companies that have never advertised on the Internet can probably improve their financial situation by doing so.
q19:b:Certain small companies that had never previously advertised on the Internet have found that their financial situations began to improve after they started to do so. So most small companies can probably improve their financial situations by starting to advertise on the Internet.
q19:c:It must be true that any small company that increases its Internet advertising will improve its financial situation, since most small companies that advertise on the Internet improved their financial situations soon after they first began to do so.
q19:d:Usually, the financial situation of a small company that has never advertised on the Internet will improve only if that company starts to advertise on the Internet. Therefore, a typical small company that has never advertised on the Internet can probably improve its financial situation by doing so.
q19:e:A small company’s financial situation usually improves soon after that company first begins to advertise on the Internet. Thus, most small companies that have never advertised on the Internet could probably become financially strong.
q20:a:The skeletons of lions and tigers are at least somewhat similar in structure in certain key respects to the skeletons of at least some extinct predatory animals.
q20:b:There have existed at least two species of extinct predatory dinosaurs that were so similar to each other that their skeletal anatomy is virtually indistinguishable.
q20:c:If skeletal anatomy alone is ever an inadequate basis for inferring a particular species’ hunting behavior, then it is never reasonable to infer, based on skeletal anatomy alone, that a species of animals hunted in packs.
q20:d:If any two animal species with virtually indistinguishable skeletal anatomy exhibit quite different hunting behaviors, then it is never reasonable to infer, based solely on the hunting behavior of those species, that the two species have the same skeletal anatomy.
q20:e:If it is unreasonable to infer, solely on the basis of differences in skeletal anatomy, that extinct animals of two distinct species differed in their hunting behavior, then the skeletal remains of those two species are virtually indistinguishable.
q21:a:If the garlic is in the pantry, then it is still fresh. And the potatoes are on the basement stairs if the garlic is in the pantry. The potatoes are not on the basement stairs, so the garlic is not still fresh.
q21:b:The jar reaches optimal temperature if it is held over the burner for 2 minutes. The contents of the jar liquefy immediately if the jar is at optimal temperature. The jar was held over the burner for 2 minutes, so the contents of the jar must have liquefied immediately.
q21:c:A book is classified “special” if it is more than 200 years old. If a book was set with wooden type, then it is more than 200 years old. This book is not classified “special,” so it is not printed with wooden type.
q21:d:The mower will operate only if the engine is not flooded. The engine is flooded if the foot pedal is depressed. The foot pedal is not depressed, so the mower will operate.
q21:e:If the kiln is too hot, then the plates will crack. If the plates crack, then the artisan must redo the order. The artisan need not redo the order. Thus, the kiln was not too hot.
q22:a:ignores medical opinions that tend to lead to a conclusion contrary to the one drawn 
q22:b:never adequately defines what is meant by “healthy”
q22:c:does not take into account the fact that appropriate weight varies greatly from person to person 
q22:d:holds that if a person lacks a property that would suffice to make the person unhealthy, then that person must be healthy 
q22:e:mistakes a merely relative property for one that is absolute
q23:a:The application of nutrients and organic matter to farmland improves the soil’s microbial activity.
q23:b:Insects never attack crops grown in soil containing adequate nutrients, organic matter, and microbial activity.
q23:c:The application of pesticides to weak crops fails to reduce the extent to which they are damaged by insect pests.
q23:d:Crops that are grown in good soil tend to be more robust than other crops.
q23:e:Growing crops without the use of pesticides generally produces less robust plants than when pesticides are used.
q24:a:People with abnormally low concentrations of the photopigments for perceiving red can perceive fewer shades of red than people with normal concentrations.
q24:b:Questions that ask subjects to distinguish between different shades of the same color are difficult to phrase with complete clarity.
q24:c:Some people are uninterested in fine gradations of color and fail to notice or report differences they do not care about.
q24:d:Some people are unable to distinguish red from green due to an absence in the retina of the photopigment sensitive to green.
q24:e:Some people fail to report distinctions between certain shades of red because they lack the names for those shades.
q25:a:presumes, without providing justification, that any science must involve complicated mathematics
q25:b:incorrectly infers that a practice is a science merely from the fact that the practice has some scientific components
q25:c:denies the possibility that astrology involves components that are neither artistic nor scientific
q25:d:incorrectly infers that astronomical knowledge is scientific merely from the fact that such knowledge is needed to create an astrological chart
q25:e:presumes, without providing justification, that any art must involve the synthesis of a multitude of factors and symbols
