q01:Consumer advocate- Businesses are typically motivated primarily by the desire to make as great a profit as possible, and advertising helps businesses to achieve this goal. But it is clear that the motive of maximizing profits does not impel businesses to present accurate information in their advertisements. It follows that consumers should be skeptical of the claims made in advertisements. Each of the following, if true, would strengthen the consumer advocate’s argument EXCEPT-:c
q02:Elaine- The purpose of art museums is to preserve artworks & make them available to the public. Museums, therefore, should seek to acquire & display the best examples of artworks from each artistic period & genre, even if some of these works are not recognized by experts as masterpieces. Frederick- Art museums ought to devote their limited resources to acquiring the works of recognized masters in order to ensure the preservation of the greatest artworks. Elaine’s & Frederick’s statements provide the most support for the claim that they would disagree about whether:b
q03:Science columnist- It is clear why humans have so many diseases in common with cats. Many human diseases are genetically based, and cats are genetically closer to humans than are any other mammals except nonhuman primates. Each of the genes identified so far in cats has an exact counterpart in humans. Which one of the following, if true, most weakens the science columnist’s explanation for the claim that humans have so many diseases in common with cats?:b
q04:This region must find new ways to help business grow. After all, shoe manufacturing used to be a major local industry, but recently has experienced severe setbacks due to overseas competition, so there is a need for expansion into new manufacturing areas. Moreover, our outdated public policy generally inhibits business growth. Which one of the following most accurately expresses the main conclusion drawn in the argument?:a
q05:As a result of modern medicine, more people have been able to enjoy long and pain-free lives. But the resulting increase in life expectancy has contributed to a steady increase in the proportion of the population that is of advanced age. This population shift is creating potentially devastating financial problems for some social welfare programs. Which one of the following propositions is most precisely exemplified by the situation presented above?:e
q06:Since Jackie is such a big fan of Moral Vacuum’s music, she will probably like The Cruel Herd’s new album. Like Moral Vacuum, The Cruel Herd on this album plays complex rock music that employs the acoustic instrumentation and harmonic sophistication of early sixties jazz. The Cruel Herd also has very witty lyrics, full of puns and sardonic humor, like some of Moral Vacuum’s best lyrics. Which one of the following, if true, most strengthens the argument?:a
q07:Superconductors are substances that conduct electricity without resistance at low temperatures.Their use, however,will never be economically feasible, unless there is a substance that superconducts at a temperature above minus 148 degrees Celsius.If there is such a substance, that substance must be an alloy of niobium and germanium. Unfortunately,such alloys superconduct at temperatures no higher than minus 160 degrees Celsius. If the statements above are true, which one of the following must also be true?:a
q08:Doctor- In three separate studies, researchers compared children who had slept with night-lights in their rooms as infants to children who had not. In the first study, the children who had slept with night-lights proved more likely to be nearsighted, but the later studies found no correlation between night-lights and nearsightedness. However, the children in the first study were younger than those in the later studies. This suggests that if night-lights cause nearsightedness, the effect disappears with age. Which one of the following, if true, would most weaken the doctor’s argument?:d
q09:Global surveys estimate the earth’s population of nesting female leatherback turtles has fallen by more than two-thirds in the past 15 years. Any species whose population declines by more than two-thirds in 15 years is in grave danger of extinction, so the leatherback turtle is clearly in danger of extinction. Which one of the following is an assumption that the argument requires?:a
q10:Public health experts have waged a long-standing educational campaign to get people to eat more vegetables, which are known to help prevent cancer. Unfortunately, the campaign has had little impact on people’s diets. The reason is probably that many people simply dislike the taste of most vegetables. Thus, the campaign would probably be more effective if it included information on ways to make vegetables more appetizing. Which one of the following, if true, most strengthens the argument?:d
q11:Pure science—research with no immediate commercial or technological application—is a public good. Such research requires a great amount of financial support and does not yield profits in the short term. Since private corporations will not undertake to support activities that do not yield short-term profits, a society that wants to reap the benefits of pure science ought to use public funds to support such research. The claim about private corporations serves which one of the following functions in the argument?:d
q12:Melinda- Hazard insurance decreases an individual’s risk by judiciously spreading the risk among many policyholders. Jack- I disagree. It makes sense for me to buy fire insurance for my house, but I don’t see how doing so lessens the chances that my house will burn down. Jack’s response most clearly trades on an ambiguity in which one of the following expressions used by Melinda?:c
q13:Some doctors believe that a certain drug reduces the duration of episodes of vertigo, claiming that the average duration of vertigo for people who suffer from it has decreased since the drug was introduced. However, during a recent three-month shortage of the drug, there was no significant change in the average duration of vertigo. Thus, we can conclude that the drug has no effect on the duration of vertigo. Which one of the following is an assumption required by the argument?:a
q14:It has been suggested that a television set should be thought of as nothing more than “a toaster with pictures” and that since we let market forces determine the design of kitchen appliances we can let them determine what is seen on television. But that approach is too simple. Some governmental control is needed, since television is so important politically and culturally. It is a major source of commercial entertainment. It plays an important political role because it is the primary medium through which many voters obtain information about current affairs. It is a significant cultural force in that in the average home it is on for more than five hours a day. Which one of the following most accurately expresses the role played in the argument by the claim that television is so important politically and culturally?:d
q15:Earthworms, vital to the health of soil, prefer soil that is approximately neutral on the acid-to-alkaline scale. Since decomposition of dead plants makes the top layer of soil highly acidic, application of crushed limestone, which is highly alkaline, to the soil’s surface should make the soil more attractive to earthworms. Which one of the following is an assumption on which the argument depends?:b
q16:Jurist- A nation’s laws must be viewed as expressions of a moral code that transcends those laws and serves as a measure of their adequacy. Otherwise, a society can have no sound basis for preferring any given set of laws to all others. Thus, any moral prohibition against the violation of statutes must leave room for exceptions. Which one of the following can be properly inferred from the jurist’s statements?:e
q17:An association between two types of conditions does not establish that conditions of one type cause conditions of the other type. Even persistent and inviolable association is inconclusive; such association is often due to conditions of both types being effects of the same kind of cause. Which one of the following judgments most closely conforms to the principle stated above?:b
q18:Salesperson- When a salesperson is successful, it is certain that that person has been in sales for at least three years. This is because to succeed as a salesperson, one must first establish a strong client base, and studies have shown that anyone who spends at least three years developing a client base can eventually make a comfortable living in sales. The reasoning in the salesperson’s argument is vulnerable to criticism on the grounds that it fails to consider the possibility that:b
q19:People who have habitually slept less than six hours a night and then begin sleeping eight or more hours a night typically begin to feel much less anxious. Therefore, most people who sleep less than six hours a night can probably cause their anxiety levels to fall by beginning to sleep at least eight hours a night. The reasoning in which one of the following arguments is most similar to that in the argument above?:a
q20:Biologist- Lions and tigers are so similar to each other anatomically that their skeletons are virtually indistinguishable. But their behaviors are known to be quite different- tigers hunt only as solitary individuals, whereas lions hunt in packs. Thus, paleontologists cannot reasonably infer solely on the basis of skeletal anatomy that extinct predatory animals, such as certain dinosaurs, hunted in packs. The conclusion is properly drawn if which one of the following is assumed?:c
q21:The trees always blossom in May if April rainfall exceeds 5 centimeters. If April rainfall exceeds 5 centimeters, then the reservoirs are always full on May 1. The reservoirs were not full this May 1 and thus the trees will not blossom this May. Which one of the following exhibits a flawed pattern of reasoning most similar to the flawed pattern of reasoning in the argument above?:a
q22:Doctor- Being overweight has long been linked with a variety of health problems, such as high blood pressure and heart disease. But recent research conclusively shows that people who are slightly overweight are healthier than those who are considerably underweight. Therefore, to be healthy, it suffices to be slightly overweight. The argument’s reasoning is flawed because the argument:e
q23:Robust crops not only withstand insect attacks more successfully than other crops, they are also less likely to be attacked in the first place, since insects tend to feed on weaker plants. Killing insects with pesticides does not address the underlying problem of inherent vulnerability to damage caused by insect attacks. Thus, a better way to reduce the vulnerability of agricultural crops to insect pest damage is to grow those crops in good soil—soil with adequate nutrients, organic matter, and microbial activity. Which one of the following is an assumption on which the argument depends?:d
q24:People perceive color by means of certain photopigments in the retina that are sensitive to certain wavelengths of light. People who are color-blind are unable to distinguish between red and green, for example, due to an absence of certain photopigments. What is difficult to explain, however, is that in a study of people who easily distinguish red from green, 10 to 20 percent failed to report distinctions between many shades of red that the majority of the subjects were able to distinguish. Each of the following, if true, helps to explain the result of the study cited above EXCEPT-:d
q25:Occultist- The issue of whether astrology is a science is easily settled- it is both an art and a science. The scientific components are the complicated mathematics and the astronomical knowledge needed to create an astrological chart. The art is in the synthesis of a multitude of factors and symbols into a coherent statement of their relevance to an individual. The reasoning in the occultist’s argument is most vulnerable to criticism on the grounds that the argument:b
