q01:At many electronics retail stores, the consumer has the option of purchasing product warranties that extend beyond the manufacturer’s warranty. However, consumers are generally better off not buying extended warranties. Most problems with electronic goods occur within the period covered by the manufacturer’s warranty. Which one of the following, if true, most strengthens the argument?:a
q02:Since the 1970s, environmentalists have largely succeeded in convincing legislators to enact extensive environmental regulations. Yet, as environmentalists themselves not only admit but insist, the condition of the environment is worsening, not improving. Clearly, more environmental regulations are not the solution to the environment’s problems. The argument’s reasoning is flawed because the argument:c
q03:Although it is unwise to take a developmental view of an art like music—as if Beethoven were an advance over Josquin, or Miles Davis an advance over Louis Armstrong—there are ways in which it makes sense to talk about musical knowledge growing over time. We certainly know more about certain sounds than was known five centuries ago; that is, we understand how sounds that earlier composers avoided can be used effectively in musical compositions. For example, we now know how the interval of the third, which is considered dissonant, can be used in compositions to create consonant musical phrases. Which one of the following most accurately expresses the main conclusion of the argument?:e
q04:A recent test of an electric insect control device discovered that, of the more than 300 insects killed during one 24-hour period, only 12 were mosquitoes. Thus this type of device may kill many insects, but will not significantly aid in controlling the potentially dangerous mosquito population. Which one of the following, if true, most seriously weakens the argument?:a
q05:Brain-scanning technology provides information about processes occurring in the brain. For this information to help researchers understand how the brain enables us to think, however, researchers must be able to rely on the accuracy of the verbal reports given by subjects while their brains are being scanned. Otherwise brain-scan data gathered at a given moment might not contain information about what the subject reports thinking about at that moment, but instead about some different set of thoughts. Which one of the following most accurately expresses the main conclusion of the argument?:e
q06:Ornithologist- This bird species is widely thought to subsist primarily on vegetation, but my research shows that this belief is erroneous. While concealed in a well-camouflaged blind, I have observed hundreds of these birds every morning over a period of months, and I estimate that over half of what they ate consisted of insects and other animal food sources. The reasoning in the ornithologist’s argument is most vulnerable to criticism on the grounds that the argument:d
q07:Educator- Only those students who are genuinely curious about a topic can successfully learn about that topic. They find the satisfaction of their curiosity intrinsically gratifying, and appreciate the inherent rewards of the learning process itself. However, almost no child enters the classroom with sufficient curiosity to learn successfully all that the teacher must instill. A teacher’s job, therefore-:a
q08:Environmentalist- When bacteria degrade household cleaning products, vapors that are toxic to humans are produced. Unfortunately, household cleaning products are often found in landfills. Thus, the common practice of converting landfills into public parks is damaging human health. Which one of the following is an assumption the environmentalist’s argument requires?:a
q09:Tea made from camellia leaves is a popular beverage. However, studies show that regular drinkers of camellia tea usually suffer withdrawal symptoms if they discontinue drinking the tea. Furthermore, regular drinkers of camellia tea are more likely than people in general to develop kidney damage. Regular consumption of this tea, therefore, can result in a heightened risk of kidney damage. Which one of the following, if true, most seriously weakens the argument?:e
q10:Artist- Avant-garde artists intend their work to challenge a society’s mainstream beliefs and initiate change. And some art collectors claim that an avant-garde work that becomes popular in its own time is successful. However, a society’s mainstream beliefs do not generally show any significant changes over a short period of time. Therefore, when an avant-garde work becomes popular it is a sign that the work is not successful, since it does not fulfil the intentions of its creator. The reference to the claim of certain art collectors plays which one of the following roles in the artist’s argument?:b
q11:A recent epidemiological study found that businesspeople who travel internationally on business are much more likely to suffer from chronic insomnia than are businesspeople who do not travel on business. International travelers experience the stresses of dramatic changes in climate, frequent disruption of daily routines, and immersion in cultures other than their own, stresses not commonly felt by those who do not travel. Thus, it is likely that these stresses cause the insomnia. Which one of the following would, if true, most strengthen the reasoning above?:c
q12:Many mountain climbers regard climbing Mount Everest as the ultimate achievement. But climbers should not attempt this climb since the risk of death or serious injury in an Everest expedition is very high. Moreover, the romantic notion of gaining “spiritual discovery” atop Everest is dispelled by climbers’ reports that the only profound experiences they had at the top were of exhaustion and fear. Which one of the following principles, if valid, most helps to justify the reasoning above?:b
q13:Each of the smallest particles in the universe has an elegantly simple structure. Since these particles compose the universe, we can conclude that the universe itself has an elegantly simple structure. Each of the following arguments exhibits flawed reasoning similar to that in the argument above EXCEPT-:b
q14:Criminologist- A judicial system that tries and punishes criminals without delay is an effective deterrent to violent crime. Long, drawn-out trials and successful legal maneuvering may add to criminals’ feelings of invulnerability. But if potential violent criminals know that being caught means prompt punishment, they will hesitate to break the law. Which one of the following, if true, would most seriously weaken the criminologist’s argument?:a
q15:Journalist- Many people object to mandatory retirement at age 65 as being arbitrary, arguing that people over 65 make useful contributions. However, if those who reach 65 are permitted to continue working indefinitely, we will face unacceptable outcomes. First, young people entering the job market will not be able to obtain decent jobs in the professions for which they were trained, resulting in widespread dissatisfaction among the young. Second, it is not fair for those who have worked 40 or more years to deprive others of opportunities. Therefore, mandatory retirement should be retained. The journalist’s argument depends on assuming which one of the following?:e
q16:Editorial- Contrary to popular belief, teaching preschoolers is not especially difficult, for they develop strict systems (e.g., for sorting toys by shape), which help them to learn, and they are always intensely curious about something new in their world. Which one of the following, if true, most seriously weakens the editorial’s argument?:b
q17:Lawyer- A body of circumstantial evidence is like a rope, and each item of evidence is like a strand of that rope. Just as additional pieces of circumstantial evidence strengthen the body of evidence, adding strands to the rope strengthens the rope. And if one strand breaks, the rope is not broken nor is its strength much diminished. Thus, even if a few items of a body of circumstantial evidence are discredited, the overall body of evidence retains its basic strength. The reasoning in the lawyer’s argument is most vulnerable to criticism on the grounds that the argument:a
q18:Ethicist- Many environmentalists hold that the natural environment is morally valuable for its own sake, regardless of any benefits it provides us. However, even if nature has no moral value, nature can be regarded as worth preserving simply on the grounds that people find it beautiful. Moreover, because it is philosophically disputable whether nature is morally valuable but undeniable that it is beautiful, an argument for preserving nature that emphasizes nature’s beauty will be less vulnerable to logical objections than one that emphasizes its moral value. The ethicist’s reasoning most closely conforms to which one of the following principles?:e
q19:An editor is compiling a textbook containing essays by several different authors. The book will contain essays by Lind, Knight, or Jones, but it will not contain essays by all three. If the textbook contains an essay by Knight, then it will also contain an essay by Jones. If the statements above are true, which one of the following must be true?:a
q20:The ability of mammals to control their internal body temperatures is a factor in the development of their brains and intelligence. This can be seen from the following facts- the brain is a chemical machine, all chemical reactions are temperature dependent, and any organism that can control its body temperature can assure that these reactions occur at the proper temperatures. Which one of the following is an assumption on which the argument depends?:d
q21:People who object to the proposed hazardous waste storage site by appealing to extremely implausible scenarios in which the site fails to contain the waste safely are overlooking the significant risks associated with delays in moving the waste from its present unsafe location. If we wait to remove the waste until we find a site certain to contain it safely, the waste will remain in its current location for many years, since it is currently impossible to guarantee that any site can meet that criterion. Yet keeping the waste at the current location for that long clearly poses unacceptable risks. The statements above, if true, most strongly support which one of the following?:c
q22:A recent survey indicates that the average number of books read annually per capita has declined in each of the last three years. However, it also found that most bookstores reported increased profits during the same period. Each of the following, if true, helps to resolve the survey’s apparently paradoxical results EXCEPT-:b
q23:Naturalist- A species can survive a change in environment, as long as the change is not too rapid. Therefore, the threats we are creating to woodland species arise not from the fact that we are cutting down trees, but rather from the rate at which we are doing so. The reasoning in which one of the following is most similar to that in the naturalist’s argument?:d
q24:Professor- A person who can select a beverage from among 50 varieties of cola is less free than one who has only these 5 choices- wine, coffee, apple juice, milk, and water. It is clear, then, that meaningful freedom cannot be measured simply by the number of alternatives available; the extent of the differences among the alternatives is also a relevant factor. The professor’s argument proceeds by:a
q25:Principle- Meetings should be kept short, addressing only those issues relevant to a majority of those attending. A person should not be required to attend a meeting if none of the issues to be addressed at the meeting are relevant to that person. Application- Terry should not be required to attend today’s two o’clock meeting. Which one of the following, if true, most justifies the stated application of the principle?:c
